hey guys welcome to lingua marina today
we're gonna talk about
improving your speaking skills in
english i hear this
so much marina i can't understand
english but i can't speak it
whenever i see a native speaker i want
to hide whenever i hear people
speaking english i want to hide what do
i do
how do i overcome the situation so my
best advice here would be like talk to
natives every single day yes you would
be scared at first but then you're going
to get better and better
and this is what study abroad trips are
for and this is why i started linguatrip
where we help people
find a study abroad program by the way
the link will be below and some
english-speaking countries
are open and are welcoming english
language students but i know that not
everyone can afford going on those trips
and i know that some of you have never
seen native speakers in your life that
was my case
when i lived in russia i would go to
different museums and i would listen
in the streets if there are any native
speakers and i would try and approach
them because
i needed to practice my english badly
but you can start preparing yourself
now you can start preparing for that
situation where you will encounter
a native speaker and you will start your
real english conversation
so tip number one is to have a cheat
sheet if you watch my channel for a
while you know that i've created a lot
of videos like 50 common phrase in
english 25 common phrases in english
the thing is when you learn a language
and phrases
it's a lot easier to speak it compared
to when you learn
english or another language in words
because once you learn
phrases you know how to communicate
using those phrases
so having like a cheat sheet where you
have those 50 common phrases in english
written down
learn some of them at least like how are
you doing you know instead of thinking
oh what should i say how are you
or how is your day going whatever you
learn one how are you doing
and you know what this phrase means
learn all of those intro phrases
i wanted to ask you f i was just
wondering if
you know all of those phrases again they
take away the pain of thinking how
should i phrase this
and once you're pronouncing this phrase
you can actually think about the content
that comes later and this advice also
works for exams so for example if you're
taking toefl or ielts and if you're
afraid of the speaking part
learn the templates learn the phrases
they gonna help you sound smoother
and the same with conversational english
learn the phrases learn the structure
write down all the phrases into your
phone have them in notes
and use them when you speak the next tip
is to chat with either siri or amazon
alexa or whatever you have on google
okay google
i've noticed that so many times when
some of my russian friends started
talking
to siri she would not understand what
they meant
because of their pronunciation and this
is a very good practice because if siri
does not understand you
something is wrong with your
pronunciation yes sometimes they have
bugs and sometimes you just pronounce
the word in a different way
but the thing is it is really helpful
because you're getting instant feedback
if siri didn't get you
then something was wrong quick pause
here guys
i know a lot of you are like but marina
how do i work on my pronunciation yes
learning words is amazing learning
phrases is amazing but what if i speak
and native speakers don't understand me
and it is really expensive to hire a
native speaker
to correct your pronunciation luckily we
are
in the 21st century where technology has
gone so far
that you can just download an app that
is going to evaluate your pronunciation
in english
the app is called elsa speak and it uses
artificial intelligence to evaluate
each and every sound that you pronounce
and it compares you
to a native speaker when you install
this app it's going to ask you
what's your native language because
every language has its own
peculiarities when you speak english so
i
said everything to russian and let's try
let's see what it says
okay back to school let me pronounce it
back to school
88 like a native speaker and now it
gives evaluation to every single sound
so
back i think i was wrong with my b
back back to school
your lips and then open them but don't
push air out
your vocal cords vibrates when
pronouncing the
oh don't push it back to school
let's try again back to school
yay 93 so this is the way it works it
evaluates every single sound
and apart from mastering your
pronunciation you will also enhance your
vocabulary
they have 1 600 plus classes
on 400 plus different topics for you
to go through elsa app also has a
dictionary that helps you
learn and learn to pronounce new words i
believe that elsa speak is one of the
best apps out there to master your
pronunciation
and to enhance your learning experience
because when you're learning from my
videos you're mostly like listening and
writing down
but this is your opportunity to speak
and get feedback
and because you're watching this video
you're getting some special
discounts you can either get 85 on your
lifetime subscriptions so instead of
paying almost 500
you get this discount and your lifetime
subscription would be 94.99
or you can get a 30 discount on the
annual membership that will cost you
31.49 if you use links below this video
check them out in the description and
now let's get back
to the class the next tip that i use a
lot
i used to use a lot i no longer use it
because i think i've mastered this but
anyways
when i was not living in the us i would
talk to myself every single day
and whenever you're doing something in
your head
just say it i am recording this video
for my channel
oh i just got a message from my friend
i'm about to call my mom
i'm about to go to bed and whatever you
can do in english just do it in english
just talk to yourself in your head
if you pronounce that that's even better
because sometimes when we're
thinking about something in our head we
just you know if we forgot the word we
just skip it
but if you're trying to pronounce it
you're like oh my god i forgot this word
i need to look it up
so pronounce everything where you're
thinking
when you're home alone it's a lot easier
the next technique is called imitation
technique
when you watch something on tv you watch
something on netflix you watch something
with subtitles on youtube
you can hear a phrase read it then pause
and not only try to repeat this phrase
with the same intonation
try to paraphrase it try to use some
different words because
in this way you would be sure that you
understood the phrase and you would be
practicing other vocabulary as well so
when you pause the movie
when you pause a video just imagine that
you're the character
and try to pronounce that phrase in the
same manner
replacing some words i also suggest that
you
exaggerate whenever you're mimicking
someone because it's always like that
with the language if you want to sound
more natural
you would sound like you're being a
clown to your brain
and you would sound like you're
exaggerating a lot to your brain
and that's the right thing to do because
when you are practicing
a foreign accent it would sound foreign
to your brain
so try to exaggerate as much as you can
whenever you sound like a crazy person
to yourself
that means that you're on the right
track and if you do
everything that i mentioned in this
video your goal is to start thinking in
english
that is a little hard it's like
meditation
when you meditate people tell you that
you
have to stop thinking at all and
whenever you notice that you're thinking
about something you just notice that
you're thinking about something and stop
again
the same technique with thinking in
english you think
in english and then you realize you're
actually thinking in your own language
you don't punish yourself you tell
yourself okay i was actually thinking in
my own language
so i just stop here and i try to think
in english again
and then again once your brain tells you
oh my god let's think in my own language
you switch back again and the more
you surround yourself with english
speech every single day
the more you start thinking in english
that's just the way it works and it is
okay that after some time you would
comment down below here and say marina
but it's impossible to think in english
when you don't live in an
english-speaking country and i would
totally agree with you
but practicing the skill before going to
an english-speaking country would really
help you because
i tried to do that and when i came to
the uk after
week one of not speaking my own language
i started thinking in english
of course when i came back home i
started thinking in russian again
but then i mastered the switch so
right now whenever i have to speak
english i think in english
and whenever i have to speak in russian
i think in russian and then the next
level is switching between languages
because there is something i don't like
doing but i keep doing it
is using english words in my russian
speech
which really makes it a little dirtier
but that's the whole new game this is
like advanced level and once you master
this you're like upper advanced
thank you guys so much for watching this
video up to the very end i hope you
enjoyed this content and i hope it would
help you
speak english faster and better by the
way if you want to sound more american
if you want to practice american speech
we have a whole course for you prepared
by my friend vania
who's an amazing american accent who
mastered it himself
who taught me my american accent as well
the link will be below
thank you guys so much for watching this
video take the american english
pronunciation course and i will see you
very
soon in my next videos bye